# MySQL/PostgreSQL isolation levels

|            | Default level     | Anomalies prevention |
| ---------- | ----------------- | -------------------- |
| MySQL      | `REPEATABLE READ` | Locking              |
| PostgreSQL | `READ COMMITTED`  | Dependency detection |

## READ UNCOMMITTED

_Dirty Reads_ can happen at `READ UNCOMMITTED` isolation level.

Read uncommitted changes of the other transaction.

> Does not happen in PostgreSQL on any isolation level

## READ COMMITTED

_Non-Repeatable Reads_ and _Phantom reads (conditional select)_ can happen at `READ COMMITTED` isolation level when the same data is read again after the first transaction has been committed.

> MySQL and PostgreSQL exhibit the same behavior.

## REPEATABLE READ

_Phantom reads_ are prevented at `REPEATABLE READ` isolation level. All reads within the second transaction will always return the same result.

> MySQL and PostgreSQL exhibit the same behavior in regard to _Phantom reads_

### Updates

In MySQL:

If an update happens in the second transaction:
- if the first transaction has not been committed, the update will freeze until the first transaction is committed
- if the first transaction has been, the committed value will be used for calculations

In PostgreSQL:
- if the first transaction has been, an error will happen due to concurrent update.

### Inserts

_Serialization anomaly_ can occur when both transactions insert the same row.

## SERIALIZABLE

_Serialization anomaly_ is prevented.

Updates and deletes will be blocked at `SERIALIZABLE` isolation level until another transaction commits. Deadlocks are possible.

### Inserts

In MySQL, the insert will freeze until the first transaction commits.
In PostgreSQL, an error will happen.

|                       | READ UNCOMMITTED | READ COMMITTED | REPEATABLE READ | SERIALIZABLE |
| --------------------- | ---------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ------------ |
| Dirty read            | ✔️/❌              | ❌              | ❌               | ❌            |
| Non-repeatable read   | ✔️                | ✔️              | ❌               | ❌            |
| Phantom read          | ✔️                | ✔️              | ❌               | ❌            |
| Serialization anomaly | ✔️                | ✔️              | ✔️               | ❌            |