# Saga

Saga is a type of distributed transaction that spans multiple services. A saga is comprised of several local transactions. Successful completion of a local transaction triggers the execution of the next local transaction.

If a local transaction fails, all previous local transaction must be rolled back in the reverse order. This is called a _compensating transaction_


## Choreography

Saga participants coordinate the workflow by the exchange of messages. It is important to send a message as part of a local transaction. The _Transactional Outbox_ pattern can be used to achieve this.

### Benefits

- Easy to implement
- Loose coupling

### Drawbacks

- Difficult to understand the business process since the implementation of the saga is distributed among the participants
- Possible cyclic dependencies
- Risk of tight coupling since the saga participant must subscribe to all events that affect it

## Orchestration

Orchestration is another style of sagas coordination. With orchestration, a central entity exists which acts like a conductor in the orchestra - it coordinates the flow of the saga by telling its participants what operation to perform. A saga orchestrator can be modelled as a _state machine_. 

### Benefits

- No cyclic dependencies
- Less coupling between services
- Clearer and easier to understand business logic
- 

### Drawbacks

- Risk of placing too much logic in the orchestrator. It should not have any business logic and should only be responsible for sequencing.
